README.md, before:

# BearLingo 🐻✨

### Project Description:
**BearLingo** is a gamified web platform designed to make job hunting engaging, structured, and stress-free for university students and recent graduates. Using principles from behavioral design and habit formation, BearLingo breaks career preparation into bite-sized lessons and interactive tasks, turning overwhelming job search challenges into achievable daily goals. Users track progress, earn badges, and stay motivated with streaks, leaderboards, and a career journal, building confidence and consistency along the way.

### Key features:
- **Gamified Career Pathways:** CV Builder, Interview Skills Tower, Networking Hub, and a Holistic Career Pathway combining all three.
- **Progress Tracking:** Streaks, achievements, and a personal career journal to maintain motivation.
- **Leaderboard & Rewards:** Friendly competition encourages engagement and celebrates milestones.
- **Responsive & Interactive UI:** Animated transitions, streak counters, and progress bars make learning fun.
- **Secure Authentication:** JWT and bcrypt.js for safe login and data management.
- **Future-ready:** Planned AI-guided journal, mobile app version, and multi-platform support.

### Team members:
| Name          | Role          | 
| ------------- | ------------- | 
| Deiza | Team Lead / Frontend developer | 
| Labiqa | Designer / Frontend developer | 
| Ha | Designer / Frontend developer | 
| Venus | Full-stack developer | 
| Thamasha | Full-stack developer | 


### Tech stack:
The project is developed using the **MERN stack** (MongoDB, Express.js, React.js, Node.js) to deliver a full-stack, modern web experience. **MongoDB** manages all user data and progress tracking, while **Express.js** and **Node.js** power the backend logic and handle API interactions. On the frontend, **React.js** creates a responsive and interactive interface, complemented by **Tailwind CSS** for sleek styling and **Framer Motion** and **LottieFiles** for smooth, engaging animations that bring the gamified experience to life.

---
## 🚀 Daily Workflow & Git guide

This guide explains how we collaborate on this project using Git.  
Follow these steps to keep your local code up to date and avoid conflicts.


#### 🌱 Creating Your Own Branch (for new features)

Before start working on a new feature (_e.g., login page_), create your own branch **based on `develop`**:

```bash
git checkout develop     # switch to base branch
git pull                 # make sure develop is up to date on local repository
git checkout -b login-page
```

### 🛠 Starting Work Each Day

1. Check which branch you’re on: `git branch`

   - The active branch will be highlighted with \*

2. Switch to the develop branch (_if not already on it_): `git checkout develop`
3. Pull the latest changes from remote: `git pull`
4. Switch back to your feature branch: `git checkout your-branch-name`
5. (_Optional but recommended_) Merge latest develop into your branch: `git merge develop`

   - If no conflicts → merge succeeds automatically.
   - If conflicts appear → solve them, or ask a teammate for help.

6. Go to the frontend/backend directory: `cd frontend` or `cd backend`
7. Install frontend/backend dependencies (_only needed if package.json in frontend/backend directory changed_): `npm install`
8. Start the development server: `npm run dev`
9. Open the app in the browser:
   - Copy the `URL` shown in the terminal & Paste it into your browser.
10. To stop the server:
    - Press `Ctrl + C` in the terminal

#### 💾 After Making Changes

9. Stage your changes: `git add .`
10. Commit your changes with a message: `git commit -m "Your commit message here"`
11. Push changes to the remote repository: `git push`
    - **Note:** If you are pushing a branch for the first time, use: `git push -u origin your-branch-name`
12. Finally, create a `Pull Request (PR)` on GitHub
    - Go to the repo on GitHub → create a PR from your branch → into develop.
    - Wait for teammates to review your code.
      - If approved and no conflicts → merge the PR.
      - If there are conflicts → resolve them (_ask for help if unsure_).

**📌 Remember**:

- Always pull the latest develop branch using `git checkout develop` and `git pull` before starting work.
- Always work on your own branch, never directly on develop or main.
- Keep branches small and focused (_one feature at a time_).

#### Helpful Git Commands

- To get changes from develop branch into your branch (might be needed for testing purposes):
  ```bash
  git checkout your-branch-name
  git merge develop
  ```
  - If no conflicts, should be able to merge
  - Else, have to solve the conflicts before merging
- Check status of your changes: `git status`
- To see your past commits: `git log`
- To just check what’s new on remote repo without changing your code: `git fetch`

---


# Original notes: 
[![Open in Codespaces](https://classroom.github.com/assets/launch-codespace-2972f46106e565e64193e422d61a12cf1da4916b45550586e14ef0a7c637dd04.svg)](https://classroom.github.com/open-in-codespaces?assignment_repo_id=19992657)

## Run and set up react app locally

1. Switch to develop branch using this command: `git checkout develop`
2. Navigate to the frontend directory: `cd frontend`
3. Install dependencies: `npm install`
4. Start the development server: `npm run dev`

After step (4) a localhost link would be provided, just copy and paste it into your browser of choice and you will see the app up and running!

Commit message:

Update README with report and Jira links
Added links to the final report and Jira project management tool.

README.md, after:

# BearLingo 🐻✨

### Project Description:
**BearLingo** is a gamified web platform designed to make job hunting engaging, structured, and stress-free for university students and recent graduates. Using principles from behavioral design and habit formation, BearLingo breaks career preparation into bite-sized lessons and interactive tasks, turning overwhelming job search challenges into achievable daily goals. Users track progress, earn badges, and stay motivated with streaks, leaderboards, and a career journal, building confidence and consistency along the way.
[Add a link to the final report]

### Key features:
- **Gamified Career Pathways:** CV Builder, Interview Skills Tower, Networking Hub, and a Holistic Career Pathway combining all three.
- **Progress Tracking:** Streaks, achievements, and a personal career journal to maintain motivation.
- **Leaderboard & Rewards:** Friendly competition encourages engagement and celebrates milestones.
- **Responsive & Interactive UI:** Animated transitions, streak counters, and progress bars make learning fun.
- **Secure Authentication:** JWT and bcrypt.js for safe login and data management.
- **Future-ready:** Planned AI-guided journal, mobile app version, and multi-platform support.

### Team members:
| Name          | Role          | 
| ------------- | ------------- | 
| Deiza | Team Lead / Frontend developer | 
| Labiqa | Designer / Frontend developer | 
| Ha | Designer / Frontend developer | 
| Venus | Full-stack developer | 
| Thamasha | Full-stack developer | 


### Tech stack:
The project is developed using the **MERN stack** (MongoDB, Express.js, React.js, Node.js) to deliver a full-stack, modern web experience. **MongoDB** manages all user data and progress tracking, while **Express.js** and **Node.js** power the backend logic and handle API interactions. On the frontend, **React.js** creates a responsive and interactive interface, complemented by **Tailwind CSS** for sleek styling and **Framer Motion** and **LottieFiles** for smooth, engaging animations that bring the gamified experience to life.

### Project management tool (Jira):
https://bearlingo-399.atlassian.net/jira/software/projects/SCRUM/boards/1?atlOrigin=eyJpIjoiZWMyZGRhZTBkYjk4NDU5YmE0Mjg2NTlkNzczNzY5YzIiLCJwIjoiaiJ9

---
## 🚀 Daily Workflow & Git guide

This guide explains how we collaborate on this project using Git.  
Follow these steps to keep your local code up to date and avoid conflicts.


#### 🌱 Creating Your Own Branch (for new features)

Before start working on a new feature (_e.g., login page_), create your own branch **based on `develop`**:

```bash
git checkout develop     # switch to base branch
git pull                 # make sure develop is up to date on local repository
git checkout -b login-page
```

### 🛠 Starting Work Each Day

1. Check which branch you’re on: `git branch`

   - The active branch will be highlighted with \*

2. Switch to the develop branch (_if not already on it_): `git checkout develop`
3. Pull the latest changes from remote: `git pull`
4. Switch back to your feature branch: `git checkout your-branch-name`
5. (_Optional but recommended_) Merge latest develop into your branch: `git merge develop`

   - If no conflicts → merge succeeds automatically.
   - If conflicts appear → solve them, or ask a teammate for help.

6. Go to the frontend/backend directory: `cd frontend` or `cd backend`
7. Install frontend/backend dependencies (_only needed if package.json in frontend/backend directory changed_): `npm install`
8. Start the development server: `npm run dev`
9. Open the app in the browser:
   - Copy the `URL` shown in the terminal & Paste it into your browser.
10. To stop the server:
    - Press `Ctrl + C` in the terminal

#### 💾 After Making Changes

9. Stage your changes: `git add .`
10. Commit your changes with a message: `git commit -m "Your commit message here"`
11. Push changes to the remote repository: `git push`
    - **Note:** If you are pushing a branch for the first time, use: `git push -u origin your-branch-name`
12. Finally, create a `Pull Request (PR)` on GitHub
    - Go to the repo on GitHub → create a PR from your branch → into develop.
    - Wait for teammates to review your code.
      - If approved and no conflicts → merge the PR.
      - If there are conflicts → resolve them (_ask for help if unsure_).

**📌 Remember**:

- Always pull the latest develop branch using `git checkout develop` and `git pull` before starting work.
- Always work on your own branch, never directly on develop or main.
- Keep branches small and focused (_one feature at a time_).

#### Helpful Git Commands

- To get changes from develop branch into your branch (might be needed for testing purposes):
  ```bash
  git checkout your-branch-name
  git merge develop
  ```
  - If no conflicts, should be able to merge
  - Else, have to solve the conflicts before merging
- Check status of your changes: `git status`
- To see your past commits: `git log`
- To just check what’s new on remote repo without changing your code: `git fetch`

---


# Original notes: 
[![Open in Codespaces](https://classroom.github.com/assets/launch-codespace-2972f46106e565e64193e422d61a12cf1da4916b45550586e14ef0a7c637dd04.svg)](https://classroom.github.com/open-in-codespaces?assignment_repo_id=19992657)

## Run and set up react app locally

1. Switch to develop branch using this command: `git checkout develop`
2. Navigate to the frontend directory: `cd frontend`
3. Install dependencies: `npm install`
4. Start the development server: `npm run dev`

After step (4) a localhost link would be provided, just copy and paste it into your browser of choice and you will see the app up and running!
